The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cavalry life in tent and field
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

Title: Cavalry life in tent and field

Author: Mrs. Orsemus Bronson Boyd

Release date: March 8, 2025 [eBook #75558]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: J. Selwin Tait & Sons, 1894

Credits: Peter Becker, John Campbell and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAVALRY LIFE IN TENT AND FIELD ***





  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  This book has only one Footnote and it has been placed close to its
  anchor [1], in Appendix A.

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


[Illustration: (photo portrait of O. B. Boyd, with his signature)]




                             CAVALRY LIFE

                                  IN

                            TENT AND FIELD

                                  BY

                      MRS. ORSEMUS BRONSON BOYD


                               NEW YORK
                        J. SELWIN TAIT & SONS
                           65 FIFTH AVENUE
                                 1894

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


                           COPYRIGHT, 1894,

                                  BY

                      MRS. ORSEMUS BRONSON BOYD.

                        _All Rights Reserved._


                         C. J. PETERS & SON,
                   TYPE-SETTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS,
                            BOSTON, U.S.A.


---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

                             CAVALRY LIFE

                                  IN

                           TENT AND FIELD.




                          TO MY DEAR BROTHER

                                JAMES,

                     I Dedicate this Little Book

           AS A FAINT TOKEN OF GRATITUDE FOR THE LOVE THAT
                  A WHOLE LIFETIME OF DEVOTION WOULD
                     NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO REPAY.

                                                       THE AUTHOR.




PREFACE.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

I take pleasure in directing attention to the kind and affectionate
tribute paid my husband, Captain Orsemus Bronson Boyd, and contained
in the Appendix of this volume. It is from the pen of a former
classmate, the gifted writer, Colonel Richard Henry Savage.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

I trust my readers will not think this introduction too lengthy. The
perusal of it seems necessary to a proper understanding of my reasons
for describing, in the following pages, the pains, perils, and
pleasures experienced by land and sea in the various peregrinations
of a cavalry officer’s wife. With Colonel Savage’s testimonial it
furnishes a completeness to the narrative that would otherwise be
lacking.

       *       *       *       *       *

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

In 1861, when every heart, both North and South, was fired by
military ardor, two brothers, named Amos and Orsemus Boyd, lived
in the small town of Croton, Delaware County, New York State.
Immediately on the declaration of civil war they experienced but one
desire—to join the Northern Army. The brothers had lost their mother
when very young, but the stepmother their father had given them
always endeavored to faithfully fill her place.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---

Additions to the family circle of a tiny boy and girl had only
cemented its happy relations. Amos and his brother were, however,
at the ages when boys welcome any escape from a life of wearisome
monotony. Farm life, with its endless routine of seed-time and
harvest, stretched before them a barren horizon. But neither was old
enough to enlist without his father’s sanction. Amos was less than
eighteen years of age, and his brother but sixteen. Months passed
before the father could be persuaded to give even a reluctant consent
to the fervid desire of his sons to join the army. Finally it was
gained, though he afterward sorely repented, and begged his wife to
also spare him from her side, that he might accompany his boys. He
could not endure the thought of his youthful sons departing for the
scenes of such dangers without his sheltering presence.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


By what means Mrs. Boyd was induced to consent to her husband’s
enlistment can only be understood by those who recall the loyal
sentiments expressed by women in 1861. Our country was then aglow
with patriotism. As in the South women gave their nearest and dearest
to the cause, so in the North they were bereft of fathers, husbands,
sons and brothers. In the little town of Croton every family sent at
least one representative to the army, and many waved adieu to all
its male members. This left to women the severe tasks of cultivating
farms and rearing families.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The young stepmother of the lads in question not only lent her
husband to his country, but during the entire three years of his
absence tilled and tended the farm, and so well, that on his return
it had not only improved in appearance, but also increased in value.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


It requires little imagination to picture the sad parting when father
and sons, after having enlisted in the Eighty-ninth Regiment New York
Volunteers, left the quiet little village to join the army.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The younger son was not at first permitted to act as a soldier on
account of his youth. Allowed to carry the flag at the head of
the command, his bravery and boldness caused his father incessant
anxiety. At the battle of Camden, when the second color bearer fell,
our young hero seized his flag and carried that also until the close
of battle. For such an act of bravery General Burnside summoned him
to headquarters, and sent him home on recruiting service.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Prior to this young Boyd had been with Burnside’s expedition off Cape
Hatteras, where for twenty-six days the soldiers had lain outside,
shipwrecked, and obliged to subsist on raw rice alone, as no fires
could be built. When they finally landed on Roanoke Island our young
lads were jubilant.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Orsemus took an active part in raising the One Hundred and
Forty-fourth New York Volunteers, and for numberless acts of bravery
was commissioned second lieutenant of Company D, September, 1862. By
reason of the senior officers’ absence he was for months, though but
eighteen years of age, in command of a company of soldiers in which
his father and elder brother were enlisted men. Perhaps no incident,
even in those stirring war times, was more unusual.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The young lieutenant’s father spent much time and effort in
endeavoring to restrain his young son’s ardor and ambition, which if
unchecked would no doubt have resulted either in rapid promotion or
an early grave. The lad knew no fear, and was always in the front of
battle. His name was again and again mentioned in “General Orders”
for “meritorious conduct.”

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Sadder than their home leaving was the return, two years later,
of father and youngest boy, who went back to lay the remains of
their eldest son and brother in the grave beside his mother. Amos
had served his country well, and met the fate of many other brave
soldiers.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


In addition to this sorrow the father constantly feared lest his
second son should also experience a soldier’s death; and while the
father’s heart glowed with pride at the encomiums lavished upon his
boy’s bravery, and the merited rewards it had already received, yet
the fear of losing him was strongest, and at that home coming a
compromise was effected.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The member of Congress from their district, desirous of finding
an acceptable appointee to West Point, chose the gallant young
lieutenant, who unwillingly accepted. Two years of active service had
proved his essential fitness for the profession of arms.

With a heart burdened with sorrow, and yet not entirely hopeless, the
father of two brave sons returned alone to his regiment, and finished
three years of service with our noble Army of the Potomac.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Orsemus Boyd entered West Point in June, 1863, after having spent
a short time in preparation. No doubt his years of service at the
front had given the lad ideas at variance with the whims of those
young men who had already passed their first year at the academy.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Any one who has been at West Point knows that a newly appointed
cadet, or “plebe” as he is called, is expected not only to bow before
his superior officers in the line of duty, but is compelled to endure
all slights and snubs that any cadet chooses to impose. In 1863 the
discipline in that respect was excessive.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The result, in the case of Mr. Boyd, was that he became unpopular
for refusing to submit to many annoyances. The climax was reached
when, after having fought with one cadet and come out the victor,
he refused—having demonstrated his courage and ability—to fight
with another, a man who had criticised the language used in the
heat of battle, and was consequently dubbed a coward. This, though
exceedingly trying to a person of his sensitive nature, was endured
with the same patience as were subsequent trials.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


After the furlough year, which comes when the first long two years
of cadet life have passed, Mr. Boyd returned to West Point from that
most desired leave of absence, with renewed hope and courage. Two
months spent in his boyhood’s home, cheered and strengthened by the
love of many friends, enabled him to go back animated by fullest
intentions to ignore all disagreeables and calmly prepare for a life
of usefulness. But it was not to be.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Shortly after Mr. Boyd’s return he missed sums of money brought from
home, but said nothing about it, as he had few confidants and was
naturally reticent.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


In the same class with Mr. Boyd was a man who had entered West Point
at the avowed age of twenty-five, though undoubtedly much older,
as his appearance indicated. During war time the extreme of age
for admission there, which before and since was and is limited to
twenty-two years, had been extended to twenty-five. This was done
in order to permit young men who had achieved distinction in real
warfare the opportunity of acquiring a military education. So this
man, named Casey, had entered at the acknowledged age of twenty-five.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


He was absolutely impecunious, and belonged to an Irish family in
very humble circumstances. Mr. Boyd’s parents, whose ancestors had
fought in the Revolutionary War, were of pure and unadulterated
American origin. Yet the superior age and cunning of the elder man
unfitted the younger to cope with him. Always open and above board,
Mr. Boyd neither knew nor expected tricks of any kind, and hence was
not prepared to meet them.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Mr. Casey was compelled to procure money at all hazards. Before
entering West Point he had married. That fact, if known, would have
dismissed him at once from the academy, in accordance with the laws
governing that institution, which permit no cadet to marry. It
therefore became the object of Casey’s life to conceal all knowledge
of that which, if known, would have proved a potent factor in his
downfall. Consumed with ambition and the desire to reach distinction
in every social way, he assiduously cultivated the acquaintance of
all cadets who could in any manner help him upward.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


In the academy at that time were several cadets, sons of very wealthy
parents, who, contrary to West Point rules, kept in their rooms at
barracks large sums of money. That was Casey’s opportunity, for
he had constant need of it with which to silence the wife who had
threatened his exposure. So great was the confidence of the academy
classmates in each other that the money was simply placed in a trunk,
to which all the clique had free access, and used as a general fund.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


Government supplies cadets with all necessary articles, therefore
only luxuries need be purchased, and the limit of these is much
reduced by the absence of stores. So even to those generous young men
the disappearance of money in large sums became puzzling, and led to
inquiries which developed into suspicions, and a plan was formed to
mark some of the bills, and thus discover the evil-doer. Mr. Boyd,
by reason of his unpopularity, was unaware of these movements, and he
had told no one of his own losses.

---END.OF.DOCUMENT---


The cadets had informed their immediate commandant that money was
constantly being stolen in the corps. Aghast at such a state of
affairs, he had authorized and selected a committee of eight—two
from among the eldest members of each company—to find and punish the
thief. In an unguarded moment the commandant had said:

“If you find the offender, you can deal with him as you deem
advisable.”
